{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15040\viewh11860\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 Terms\
\
accessor method
\f1\b0 \'97A method that accesses an object or instance variable but does not change it\
\

\f0\b ACK
\f1\b0 \'97Acknowledgement message. It contains the sequence number of the correctly recede passage. During wireless communication  between nodes, in order to guarantee that the message is passed correctly, an ACK node A will receive an ACK from B. If no ACK is received, A will resend the message to B using the copy stored in its memory.\
\

\f0\b actual parameter
\f1\b0 \'97The expression supplied for a formal parameter of a method by the caller.\
\

\f0\b address
\f1\b0 \'97It's the location where memory is stored in a computer. Each location has a unique address. \
\

\f0\b algorithm\'97 
\f1\b0 An well-ordered collection of effectively computable operations that when executed, produces a result and halts in a finite amount of time.\
\

\f0\b API 
\fs24 \'97 
\f1\b0 Application Programming Interface, A code library for building programs.\

\fs26 \

\f0\b argument\'97
\f1\b0 An actual parameter in a method call, or one of the values combined by an operator.\
\

\f0\b arithmetic/Logic Unit (ALU) \'97 
\f1\b0 A part of the architecture of a computer and it executes arithmetic instructions (such as addition/subtraction) Operations include AND, OR, XOR, and NOT.\
\

\f0\b ARQ Algorithm\'97
\f1\b0 Automatic repeat request, and it is the basis for all data link control protocols in current use. It allows the detection of an error that has occurred and retransmits a new and unblemished copy of the original message if the ACK is not received from the starting point.\
\

\f0\b ASCII
\f1\b0 \'97 American Standard Code for Information Interchange. It is a character encoding scheme based on the ordering of the English alphabet. It uses bit patterns with a length of seven or eight various systems.\
\

\f0\b assembly language\'97
\f1\b0 Early programmers working on the first generation of computers developed assembly languages after they realized the shortcomings of machine language, and they were designed for people as well as computers. Assembly languages created a more productive, user-oriented environment and were one of the first pieces of system software to be widely used. These were second generation languages and are now known as low-level programming languages. They are machine specific, unlike high-level programming languages, which are more user oriented\
\

\f0\b binary\'97
\f1\b0 A way to represent data using two variables, 1s and 0s.\
\

\f0\b bit\'97
\f1\b0 Representation of data with computers
\fs24 , this is one unit of data.\

\fs26 \

\f0\b boolean\'97
\f1\b0 A binary value that is either true or false
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \

\f0\b boolean expression
\f1\b0 -an expression that is true or false\
\

\f0\b boolean operator
\f1\b0 \'96operations that manipulate true or false expressions.\
\

\f0\b byte
\f1\b0  - a unit of memory on a computer representing 8 bits\
\

\f0\b bytecode
\f1\b0  - bytecode is various forms of instruction sets designed for efficient execution by a software interpreter\
\

\f0\b cache memory
\f1\b0  - is a cache used by the CPU of a computer to reduce the average time to access memory. The cache is small and accesses memory faster than RAM and stories copies of the data that is most frequently used on the computer. hx + (1-h)(x+y)\
\

\f0\b cast
\f1\b0  - To cast is to convert one data type into another.\
\

\f0\b Church-Turing Thesis
\f1\b0  - This is the thesis that if there is an algorithm, a turing machine exists for it and vice versa. Consequently, if no turing machine exists, there is no algorithm for the said problem.\
\

\f0\b class
\f1\b0  - a user defined data type\
\

\f0\b compiler - 
\f1\b0 a compiler "translates" a high-level programming language into machine language so that it can be executed.\
\

\f0\b computability
\f1\b0  - computability refers to the ability to solve a problem in an effective mater using mathematical logic. It refers to whether or not an algorithm exists to solve a problem.\
\

\f0\b computer network
\f1\b0  - a computer network is a group of computers that are interconnected through communications channels that allow for the sharing of resources, data, and printing capabilities. \
\

\f0\b computer science
\f1\b0  - the discipline that seeks to build a scientific foundation for topics such as computer design, computer programming, information processing, algorithmic solutions of problems, and the algorithmic process itself. T
\f0\b he study of algorithms included their formal and mathematical properties, their hardware and linguistic realizations, and their applications.\

\f1\b0 \

\f0\b computing agent
\f1\b0  - The machine, robot, person, or thing carrying out the steps of the algorithm being executed.\
\

\f0\b constructor
\f1\b0  - a method that initiales a newly instantiated object.\
\

\f0\b control unit
\f1\b0  - it contains the circuitry for coordinating the machine's activities. It activates the proper circuitry in the ALU to perform the desired instruction.\
\
\

\f0\b DASD
\f1\b0  - direct access storage device, such as a USB drive or hard drive. These are magnetic disk storage device and are not RAM. Every unit of information has a unique address but the time needed to access that location depends on its physical location and the current state of the device,\
\

\f0\b DNS
\f1\b0  - An internet-wide directory system of name servers, which are directories that provide address translation services to clients into IP addresses so that messages may be delivered across a network.\
\

\f0\b ethernet - 
\f1\b0 A system from connecting a number of computer systems to form a LAN with protocols to control passing of information and to avoid simultaneous transmission by two or more systems. Connects the computer to a network using a coaxial cable//fiber optic cable.\
\

\f0\b encapsulation
\f1\b0  - the concept of privatizing methods and variables within different classes of a program. It limits the accessibility of cretin variables in the class and certain methods so that an outside user cannot be malicious by using the program.\
\

\f0\b explicit parameter
\f1\b0  - a parameter of a method other than the object on which the method is invoked.\
\

\f0\b flops
\f1\b0  - floating point operations per second//to compare performance amount different makes of computers by giving the number of arithmetic operations, such as additions or subtractions of real numbers, that each one can do in 1 second.\
\

\f0\b formal parameter - 
\f1\b0 a variable in a method definition; it is initialized with an actual parameter with the method is called. \
\

\f0\b gigabyte - 
\f1\b0 roughly one billion bytes, a measurement of memory capabilities on a computer.\
\

\f0\b Halting Problem - 
\f1\b0 the halting problem is the idea that you cannot create a universal turing machine that will test to see if any algorithm/turing machine is stuck in a loop. This means that no algorithm exists and that there will never be a universal debugger that will test to see if a program will get caught in an infinite loop.\
\

\f0\b HTTP
\f1\b0  - hypertext transfer protocol, in which web-browsers and the Internet interpret and present webpages and how this information is shared universally from machine to machine.\
\

\f0\b I/0 buffer
\f1\b0  - an area of computer memory used to temporarily store data and instructions transferred into and out of a computer, permitting several such transfers to take place simultaneously with processing of data.\
\

\f0\b I/O controller
\f1\b0  - a device that interfaces between an input or output device and the computer or hardware device. The tape recorded that fastforwards information from the input/output memory device to the RAM/computer. \
\

\f0\b IDE
\f1\b0  - an integrated development environment such as Eclipse and it provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development.\
\

\f0\b implicit parameter
\f1\b0  - an implicit parameters is the designation of which object on which the method being called is performed. \
\

\f0\b interface (in Java)
\f1\b0  - a type with no instance variables, only abstract methods and constants.\
\

\f0\b inheritance (in Java)
\f1\b0  - The is-a relationship between a more general superclass and a more specialized subclass. \
\

\f0\b initialize
\f1\b0  - to et a variable to a well defined value when it is created.\
\

\f0\b instance - 
\f1\b0 an occurrence or a copy of an object\
\

\f0\b instance variable - 
\f1\b0 a variable defined in a class for which every object of the class has its own value.\
\

\f0\b instantiation
\f1\b0  - Construction of an object of a class\
\

\f0\b Internet Protocol
\f1\b0  - a mutually agreed upon set of rules, conventions, and agreements for the efficient and orderly exchange of information. The reason the intent works is because a protocol exists.\
\

\f0\b instruction register
\f1\b0  - a part of the CPU control unit that stores the instruction currently being executed or decoded\
\

\f0\b instruction set
\f1\b0  - a list of all the instructions, all all their variations, that a processor can execute.\
\

\f0\b kilobyte
\f1\b0   - a unit of memory or data equal to 1024 bytes.\
\

\f0\b LAN
\f1\b0  - local area network, connects hardware devices such as computers, printers, and storage devices that are in close proximity. Because it is entirely on private property, the owner can install telecommunications facilities without having to purchase services from third-party provider such as a phone or cable company. \
\

\f0\b local variable
\f1\b0  - a variable that only exists within a certain method\
\

\f0\b logic gate
\f1\b0  - a computer circuit with several inputs but only one output that can be activated by particular combinations of inputs.\
\

\f0\b loop
\f1\b0  - a sequence of instructions that is executed repeatedly.\
\

\f0\b MAC
\f1\b0  - medium access control address is a unique identifier assigned to network interfaces for communications on the physical network segment. Used by Ethernet protocol.\
\

\f0\b machine language - 
\f1\b0 a system of instructions and data executed and understood directly by a computer's CPU, is the desired instructions represented in binary. \
\

\f0\b mass storage - 
\f1\b0 Because the main memory is small and volatile, most computers have mass storage. It is less volatile and has larger storage capabilities but requires mechanical motion store and retrieve data.\
\

\f0\b megabyte
\f1\b0  - 2^20 bytes of binary data on a computer\
\

\f0\b memory
\f1\b0  - the data stored on a computer\
\

\f0\b Memory Address Register (MAR)
\f1\b0  - holds the address of the cell to be fetched or stored, it must be N bits wide, where 2^N is the address space of the computer.\
\

\f0\b Memory Data Register (MDR)
\f1\b0  - contains the data value being fetched or stored. MDR is usually a multiple of 8\
\

\f0\b method
\f1\b0  - a sequence of statements that has a name, may have formal parameters, and may return a value. A method can be invoked any number of times, with different values for its parameters.\
\

\f0\b mutator method
\f1\b0  - a method that changes an object or instance variable of an object\
\

\f0\b object
\f1\b0  - an instance of a class\
\

\f0\b object reference - 
\f1\b0 a value that denotes the location of an object in memory. In Java, a variable whose type is a class contains a reference to an object of that class.\
\

\f0\b object-oriented programming - 
\f1\b0 designing a program by discovering objects, their properties, and their relationships.\
\

\f0\b op code
\f1\b0  - operation code, a portion of a machine language instruction that specifies the operation to be performed.\
\

\f0\b operating system
\f1\b0  - the software which runs and controls the basic software of a computer.\
\

\f0\b overloading a method -
\f1\b0  giving more than one meaning to a method name (For example, having different explicit parameters)\
\

\f0\b overriding a method
\f1\b0  - redefining a method in a subclass\
\

\f0\b parameter
\f1\b0  - an item of information that is specified to a method when the method is called. \
\

\f0\b parameter passing
\f1\b0  - specifying expressions to be actual parameters values for a method when it is called.\
\

\f0\b portability
\f1\b0  - the ability to reuse the existing code instead of creating new code when moving software from one environment to another. Requires a generalized abstraction when writing code.\
\

\f0\b primitive data type
\f1\b0  - a basic type of data provided by a programming language as a basic building block. In java, it includes double, integer, short, char, byte, float, long, string\
\

\f0\b protocol - 
\f1\b0 a mutually agreed upon set of rules, conventions, and agreements for the efficient and orderly exchange of information\
\

\f0\b protocol stack
\f1\b0  - a particular software implementation of computer networking protocol suite (the definition of the protocols) physical, datalink, network, transport, application\
\

\f0\b pseudocode - 
\f1\b0 a high-level description of the actions of a program or algorithm, using a mixture of English and information programming language syntax.\
\

\f0\b Random Access Memory
\f1\b0  - the main memory on a computer where data can be stored and accessed immediately indented of the data's location and its relationship to surrounding data. \
\

\f0\b register
\f1\b0  - a storage cell that holds the operands of an arithmetic operation and that, when the operation is complete, holds its result. \
\

\f0\b SASD
\f1\b0  - sequential access storage devices, does not require all units of data to be identifiable via unique address. To find any given data item we must search all data sequentially repeatedly asking is this what i'm looking for. Like an audio cassette tape. \
\

\f0\b scope
\f1\b0  - the existence and accessibility of a variable in a program. An instance variable can be accessed throughout the entire class whereas a variable declared within a method only exists and has a cope within that method. \
\

\f0\b software
\f1\b0  - a collection of computer programs that manage the resources of a computer and facilitate the access to those resources\
\

\f0\b static variable
\f1\b0  - a variable defined in a class that has only one value for the whole class, which can be accessed and changed by any method of that class.\
\

\f0\b static method - 
\f1\b0 a method with no implicit parameter\
\

\f0\b stored program concept - 
\f1\b0 the storage of instructions in a computer memory along with data which enables it to perform a variety of tasks in sequence or intermittently. \
\

\f0\b syntax
\f1\b0  - rules that define how to form instructions in particular programming language.\
\

\f0\b terabyte
\f1\b0  - 1000 gigabytes// 1 trillion bytes\
\

\f0\b time complexity - 
\f1\b0 an algorithm that quantifies the amount of time taken by an algorithm mto run as a function of the size of the input to the problem. Commonly expressed using Big O notation. \
\

\f0\b transistor
\f1\b0  - a semiconductor device used to amplify and switch electronic signals. Build up circuits.\
\

\f0\b TCP
\f1\b0  - a communication protocol that is used to establish a reliable transmission of data between two computers on the internet. \
\

\f0\b truth table
\f1\b0  - a mathematical table used to compute the functional values of logical expressions on each of their function arguments.\
\

\f0\b Turing machine
\f1\b0  - a very simple model of computation that is used in theoretical computer science to explore computability of problems.\
\

\f0\b Von Neumann architecture
\f1\b0  - a design model for a stored program digital computer that uses a CPU, RAM, and I/O data storage, and uses the sequential execution of instructions.\
\

\f0\b white space - 
\f1\b0 any sequence of only space, table, and new line characters. Allows a program to be more readable to the human eye\

\f0\b \
WAN
\f1\b0  - a wide area network that covers a broad area whose communications links cross metropolitan, regional, or national boundaries. \
\
Review of Schneider and Gersting Key Concepts\

\f0\b Chapter 1\

\f1\b0 Computer technology developed around the 1930s-1940s\
ENIAC was the first fully electronic general purpose programmable computer.\
von Neumann Architecture executed in 1951\
First generation - used only by trained personnel and only in specialized locations\
Second generation: much smaller, increased reliability and cost. Appearance of high level programming languages.\
Third generation: integrated circuit, using transistors onto silicon to reduce size and cost further, now desk sized and birth of the minicomputer\
Fourth generation: microcomputer \
\

\f0\b Chapter 2\

\f1\b0 Selection sort: Given a list, take the current element and exchange it with the smallest element on the right hand side of the current element.\
Time complexity never changes, it is ALWAYS n(n-1)/2\
Insertion sort: Given a list, take the current element and insert it at the appropriate position of the list, adjusting the list overtime you insert. Like sorting a deck of cards.\
Time Complexity: Worst case is n(n-1)/2. Generally it will take lesser is equal to.\
Binary search algorithm time complexity: lg (n)\

\f0\b Chapter 3
\f1\b0 \
intractable - no polynomially bounded algorithm exists. They are solvable, but the solution algorithms all require so much work as to be virtually useless. \
\

\f0\b Chapter 4\

\f1\b0 To represent negative numbers, use two's complement. Proceeded by a 1 or a 0 for negative or positive\
ASCII vs UNICODE, UNICODE has 65000+ available symbols, 50,000 already assigned! \
Representing sound: analog signal must be digitized using sampling. At fixed time intervals, the amplitude of the signal is measured and stored as an integer value. The wave is represented in digit form. Generally represented using 16 or 24 bit samples.\
\
compression : preserves accuracy but uses significantly less space. \

\f0\b run-length encoding
\f1\b0  replaces a sequence of identical values by a pair of values (v,n) which indicates that the value v is replicated n times.\

\f0\b variable length encoding 
\f1\b0 If the codes representing common length symbols were shorter than codes representing the less common symbols, this would save significant amount of space.\
These are both lossless compression schemes.\
Lossy techniques compromise accuracy for space, and many today use these because they are generally undetectable to the human eye.\
\
Transistors building blocks of circuits and therefore computers. CAn switch a swat in a billionth of a second, made of semiconductors. \
\
N input values, 2^N lines to a truth table\
Control circuits - 2^N inputs, N selector lines\
\

\f0\b Chapter 5\

\f1\b0 Von Neumann architecture consists of four major subsets, memory, input/output, ALU, control unit\
stored program concept\
sequential execution of instruction\
\
ROM - read only memory, can only be fetched. hold important system instructions and data where can not be overwritten, such as booting up a computer and transferrin the OS from the mass memory to the RAM.\
\
IF N is the number of binary digits used to represent an address, there are a total of 2^N memory cells. theoretically, doesn't necessarily mean that it is that way, just that it can be expanded that far.\
\
Fetch(address) - load into MAR, decode in MAR, copy contents of that into the MDR\
\
STORE(address, value) - load address into MAR, Load value into MDR, decode the address in the MAR, store the contents of the MDR into that memory location. \
\
Two dimensional storage of the data (row and column) using two decoder circuits. Therefore the MAR is an N bit address made up of 2 distinct parts for the row and column. Memory unit must have a fetch/sore controller that determines whether we put the connects of a memory cell into the MDR or put the contents of the MDR into a memory cell.\
\
Cache decreases memory access time, put a small amount in each computer.\
\
SEek tie is the time needed to position the read/write head over the correct track\
latency is the time for the beginning of the desired sector to rotate under the read/write head\
transfer time is the time for the entire sector to pass under the read/write head and have its contents read into or written from memory.\

\f0\b \

\f1\b0 A computer can have as few as 30-50 instructions in its instruction set.\
\
Control unit - program counter, instruction register, instruction decoder circuit\
\
control unit fetches and decodes the instruction, activates the correct circuitry in the ALU, which executes it and feeds it into the IRaddr.\

\f0\b \
Chapter 6\

\f1\b0 What software deals with: user interface, assemblers, compliers, interpreters (allow you to write programs in a high level user oriented language that the machine compiles such as text editors and debuggers), memory managers, information managers, I/O systems (easily and efficiently use the many different types of input and output devices), scheduler, utilities (program libraries)\
\
assembler - compiles the program from assembly language to machine language\
pass one - goes through and allocates memory for all the instructions/variables used\
pass two - translates the interactions into machine language\
\
deadlock prevention - all or nothing\
\
\

\f0\b Chapter 7\

\f1\b0 \
modem - modulation/demodulation, carries the analog signal over a carrier (which also modulates/alters it) 1200-9600 bps, too slow to deal with web pages, mp3 files or streaming video\
broadband - transmission rate exceeding 256000 bps (DSL and cable modem)\
\
DSL - digital subscriber line , uses a different set of frequencies and transits digital rather than analog signals than a phone line. Therefore talking with a friend does not interfere with web access. unlike modem, doesn't have to dial up, is always on. typically the speed is 2-8 billion bps for downloads and .5-1 million bps for uploads, asymmetric connection.\
\
ethernet - originally designed for 10mbps using a coaxial cable. Fast Ethernet is 100 Mbps. NOW it is at 1000 Mbps.\
\
8 million bits to send to send a single image when watching a video. Dialup-2.4 minutes. DSL - 4 seconds, Ethernet .8 seconds, Fast Ethernet .08seconds, Gigabit Ethernet .008 seconds, Tengigabit Ethernet .0008 seconds.\
\
A real-time video image requires at least 24 frames per second, beyond speed of fast ethernet\
\
Wireless local access network - local wireless base station (router) which is connected to a DSL/Cable Modem/Ethernet \
\
Metropolitan Wireless Local Access Network - cities have wifi routers every few blocks providing low cost access. \
\
Wireless affected by weather and random clicks and pops can eff you up.\
\
bridge connects different LANs\
\
On a LAN, a message is broadcast on a shared channel and is received by all nodes. A WAN message must hop from one node to another to make its way from source to destination. \
\
A router is used to send information between networks that use totally different communication techniques. \
\

\f0\b logical link control\
medium access control
\f1\b0 \
\
Chapter 11\
\
Review of Big Java Key Concepts\
Chapter 1\
Chapter 2\
Chapter 3\
Chapter 4\
Chapter 5\
Chapter 6 \
Chapter 7\
Chapter 8\
Chapter 9\
Chapter 10\
Chapter 11\
\
Key Concepts from Notes\
\
Key Concepts from Online Program Solutions\
\
Go through old homework assignments}